integrity and confidentiality bounds for TLS 1.2 ciphersuites (#251)
yaronf/I-D: BCP195bis/draft-ietf-uta-rfc7525bis.md

## Limits on Key Usage

All ciphers have an upper limit on the amount of traffic that can be securely
protected with any given key. In the case of AEAD cipher suites, two separate
limits are maintained for each key:

> 1. Confidentiality limit (CL), i.e., the amount of records that can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Confidentiality limit (CL), i.e., the number of records that can be
```

   encrypted.

> 1. Integrity limit (IL), i.e., the amount of records that can fail

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Integrity limit (IL), i.e., the number of records that are allowed to fail
```

   authentication.

The latter only applies to DTLS since TLS connections are torn down on the
first decryption failure.

When a sender is approaching CL, the implementation SHOULD initiate a new
handshake (or in TLS 1.3, a Key Update) to rotate the session key.

When a receiver has reached IL, the implementation SHOULD close the connection.

> When a receiver is approaching IL, the implementation SHOULD initiate a new

Reviewer: Formally this is correct. But I don't think we should recommend re-handshake here: you've just received a quarter billion corrupted packets, just close the connection and be done.

Author: I think we should not shift from https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-tls-dtls13-43.html#section-4.5.3-4
(I was with you before re-reading that para.)

Author: You are right, in fact it says you SHOULD drop it.  What it also says is that when approaching the limit you SHOULD start negotiating a new connection.  Is this second requirement that you don't want to mirror?

Reviewer: Yes. I think any sane implementation would have timed out long before, because IL >> CL.

Reviewer 2: Removing the second requirement is fine with me.

handshake (or in DTLS 1.3 a Key Update) to rotate the session key.

For all TLS 1.3 cipher suites, readers are referred to Section 5.5 of {{RFC8446}}.

For all DTLS 1.3 cipher suites, readers are referred to Section 4.5.3 of
{{I-D.ietf-tls-dtls13}}.

> For all AES-GCM cipher suites recommended for TLS and DTLS 1.2 in this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For all AES-GCM cipher suites recommended for TLS 1.2 and DTLS 1.2 in this
```

has reached the limit, an implementation SHOULD perform a new handshake (or in TLS 1.3,
a Key Update) to rotate the session key.

For all AES-GCM cipher suites recommended for TLS 1.2 in this document, the
limit can be derived by plugging the corresponding parameters into the
inequalities in Section 6.1 of {{?I-D.irtf-cfrg-aead-limits}} that apply to
random, partially implicit nonces, i.e., the nonce construction used in TLS
1.2.  Although the obtained figures are slightly higher than those for TLS 1.3,

> it is RECOMMENDED that the same limit of 2<sup>24.5</sup> is used for both

Reviewer: same limit of ... records

it is RECOMMENDED that the same limit of 2<sup>24.5</sup> records is used for both
versions.

For DTLS 1.2 where, unlike TLS, the established security context is not torn
down on the first decryption failure, there is a separate bound for the number
of forgeries that can be tolerated before the current session keys become
insecure.  The formulas in Section 6.1 of {{?I-D.irtf-cfrg-aead-limits}}
related to random, partially implicit nonces, provide an upper bound for the
number of forgery attempts (i.e., failed AEAD decryption invocations) of
2<sup>28</sup>.  Note that since this value is higher than the confidentiality
bound recommended above, the latter can be used instead.

> 

Reviewer: This is very confusing (for me and probably for developers). What is the maximum number of records I am allowed to *send*? As a receiver, am I really expected to tolerate millions of incorrect decryptions per connection? I understand why you should tolerate a few (because of random packet corruption and to not be too susceptible to DoS) but this sounds like too much.

Author: > This is very confusing (for me and probably for developers). What is the maximum number of records I am allowed to _send_?

(On each direction) sender and receiver share the same key, so they share the same confidentiality bound.  Whoever gets to the threshold first will kill the session and resume/re-handshake.  The integrity bound instead makes sense on the receiver side only.

> As a receiver, am I really expected to tolerate millions of incorrect decryptions per connection? I understand why you should tolerate a few (because of random packet corruption and to not be too susceptible to DoS) but this sounds like too much.

The situation today is that most DTLS stacks silently drop a packet that failed decryption on the floor, so effectively they tolerate an infinite number of corruptions.  In fact, this is more or less what the [spec tells us to do](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6347#section-4.1.2.1).

> For all TLS 1.3 cipher suites, readers are referred to Section 5.5 of {{RFC8446}}.

Reviewer: TLS and DTLS?

Author: the big text reshuffle in 15f1e5e sort of supersedes this.
